= Welcome to MongoRecord

MongoRecord is an ActiveRecord-like framework for the 10gen
Mongo[http://www.mongodb.org/] database.

This library is for use outside of Ruby on Rails. If you want to use Mongo
with Ruby on Rails, please see the 'activerecord-mongo-adapter' project at
http://github.com/mongodb/activerecord-mongo-adapter.

This document assumes you have read the Mongo documentation.

A quick code sample:

  require 'rubygems'
  require 'mongo'
  require 'mongo_record'

  class Track < MongoRecord::Base
    collection_name :tracks
    fields :artist, :album, :song, :track
    def to_s
      "artist: #{artist}, album: #{album}, song: #@song, track: #{@track ? @track.to_i : nil}"
    end
  end

  MongoRecord::Base.connection =
    XGen::Mongo::Driver::Mongo.new.db('mongorecord-test')

  t = Track.new(:artist => 'Level 42', :album => 'Standing In The Light',
                :song => 'Micro-Kid', :track => 1)
  t.save
  puts "There are #{Track.count()} tracks."
  t = Track.find(:first, :conditions => {:song => 'Micro-Kid'})
  Track.find(:all, :sort => 'song').each { |t| puts t.to_s }

== Installation

  $ gem sources -a http://gems.github.com
  $ sudo gem install mongodb-mongo_record

MongoRecord depends on the Mongo Ruby Driver, version 0.5.4 or higher.
Installing the MongoRecord gem will also install the Mongo Ruby Driver if you
don't have it already.

The source code is available at http://github.com/mongodb/mongo-ruby-driver.
You can either clone the git repository or download a tarball or zip file.
Once you have the source, you can use it from wherever you downloaded it or
you can install it as a gem from the source by typing

  $ rake gem:install

Note: when you install the gem this way it is called "mongo_record", not
"mongodb-mongo_record". In either case, you "require 'mongo_record'" in your
source code.


== Getting Started

See the examples, read the MongoRecord::Base and MongoRecord::Cursor
documentation, and look at tests/test_mongo.rb.

=== Persistence

You can use MongoRecord::Base or talk to the database (stored in the $db
object) directly.

See MongoRecord::Base and MongoRecord::Cursor.

=== Logger

See MongoRecord::LogDevice. When running outside of the cloud (for example,
during development), all log messages are echoed to $stderr which is normally
the console.

== Credits
Jim Mulholland, jim at squeejee dot com
* Ability to save custom attributes not declared in the model
* Save and retrieve custom "_id" fields
* Find_each functionality
* Find_last based on the created_at field
* Assigning created_at and updated_at fields even if they are not declared
* Alias methods for "first", "last" and "all"

== To Do

* DBRefs
